Add pp to SCM for friction pressure loss. (#33508)
idaholab/moose: modules/subchannel/doc/content/source/postprocessors/SCMFrictionPressureDrop.md

# SCMFrictionPressureDrop

The `SCMFrictionPressureDrop` postprocessor reports the area averaged homogenized pressure

> loss caused by axial wall friction (from the pin surface and duct) and local form losses in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loss caused by axial wall friction (from the pins and duct surfaces) and local form losses in a
```

subchannel assembly from the inlet to the outlet surface. It excludes

> axial acceleration, transient momentum storage, crossflow, and gravity terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pressure losses from axial acceleration, transient momentum storage, crossflow, and gravity terms.
```
what did you mean by axial acceleration?

loss preserves the SCM assembly's total axial friction force when it is applied to the coupled
model's flow area.

For each subchannel $i$, it sums the friction contribution from each axial cell. For the implicit
momentum formulation, the cell contribution is reconstructed from the converged solution as

\begin{equation}
\Delta p_{\mathrm{loss},i,z}
=
\left(
f_{D,i,z}\frac{\Delta z}{D_{h,i,z}} + K_{i,z}
\right)
\frac{|\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{out}}|}
     {2\rho_{i,z}S_{i,z}^2}
\left(
\alpha_{i,z}\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{in}}
+ (1-\alpha_{i,z})\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{out}}
\right).
\end{equation}

Here, $\alpha$ is the momentum solver's spatial interpolation coefficient. The explicit
formulation instead uses
$\dot m^{\mathrm{out}}|\dot m^{\mathrm{out}}|/(2\rho S^2)$.
The friction force in an axial cell is $F_{\mathrm{loss},i,z} =
S_{i,z}\Delta p_{\mathrm{loss},i,z}$. The assembly pressure loss preserves the total axial
resistance force when reducing the subchannels to a single cross-sectionally averaged momentum
equation:

\begin{equation}
\Delta p_{\mathrm{loss}}
=
\sum_z
\frac{\sum_i |F_{\mathrm{loss},i,z}|}

>      {\sum_i S_{i,z}}.

Reviewer: are you sure about this one? friction factor of a bundle for parallel channels is a specific calclation

https://pages.mtu.edu/~fmorriso/cm310/JonesOCpaper1976.pdf
2.2.4 of https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0029549313003178#bib0015 for CT's averaging of the coefficients

Reviewer: It might be a little like an average of resistances?

# SCMFrictionPressureDrop

!syntax description /Postprocessors/SCMFrictionPressureDrop

The `SCMFrictionPressureDrop` postprocessor reports the cross-sectionally homogenized pressure

> loss caused by axial wall friction and local form losses in a subchannel assembly. It excludes

Reviewer 2: let's specify that is fuel pin surface friction for the inner subchannels and duct wall and fuel pin surface for the perimeter subchannels.

Author: Added the mods!

> axial acceleration, transient momentum storage, crossflow, and gravity terms.

Reviewer 2: Is it mass-flow averaged? arithmetically average? cross-sectionally homogenized is not very clear.

Reviewer 2: I think you are doing a surface average pressure drop. We should also mention that the pressure drop refers to inlet to outlet.

Reviewer 2: You mention the it is a surface average below, but i think it should be in the first line also.

Author: Added with the next push!

!alert note
This postprocessor is intended primarily for coupling the subchannel assembly to THM or another
code that represents the assembly with a reduced momentum equation. The homogenized pressure
loss preserves the SCM assembly's total axial friction force when it is applied to the coupled
model's flow area.

For each subchannel $i$, it sums the friction contribution from each axial cell. For the implicit
momentum formulation, the cell contribution is reconstructed from the converged solution as

\begin{equation}
\Delta p_{\mathrm{loss},i,z}
=
\left(
f_{D,i,z}\frac{\Delta z}{D_{h,i,z}} + K_{i,z}
\right)
\frac{|\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{out}}|}
     {2\rho_{i,z}S_{i,z}^2}
\left|
\alpha_{i,z}\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{in}}
+ (1-\alpha_{i,z})\dot m_{i,z}^{\mathrm{out}}
\right|.

> \end{equation}

Reviewer 2: This expression is always positive. I think we should consider recirculation cases: 
 auto friction_term = (ff * dz / Dh_i + ki) * 0.5 *
                             (*_mdot_soln)(node_out)*std::abs((*_mdot_soln)(node_out)) /
                             (S * (*_rho_soln)(node_out));

Author: Hmmm, I think you are right! I will enable the signedness. Will be done in the nxt push.

Reviewer 2: I think the code enables the negative sign. The document presents it as positive always with the absolute.
